 — INTRO — 
Welcome to AutoViz!

AutoViz is an interactive visualization system for car sales data. We offer a variety of graphs and filters, allowing users to explore and view the data from different perspectives. Let me introduce the features and functions as follows:

 — FILTER — 
On the left side of the system, you will find the USA states map filter. Users can click on a state to select or deselect it. If a state's region is too small to click on, users can zoom in with their mouse wheel, drag the map, or right-click on the area to center and zoom in on the state. The color of each state represents its car sales numbers. Users can switch the view to display the total, average, or median selling prices by state, with the colorbar above adjusting to the corresponding scales. Additionally, users can hover over a state to see the exact numbers.

On the bottom right side of the system, you will find the car brands bubble filter. Each bubble represents a brand, and users can click to select or deselect the brand. The size of the bubble represents the total sales number of that brand, and users can switch the view to display the total, average, or median selling prices. Users can hover over a bubble to see the exact numbers as well.

It's important to note that the two filters above (states and brands) are interconnected. When you filter the data using the map filter, the bubble sizes adjust to reflect the selected state accordingly and immediately. Similarly, when you filter the data using the brand filter, the colors of the states adapt to match the selected brands. This feature allows users to observe how the sales condition of certain brands is distributed regionally and compare the sales condition for different brands within specific states.
 — MAIN GRAPHs —
AutoViz provides 5 kinds of charts for users to explore the data from different angles, they are scatter plot, box plot, parallel coordinate, and parallel sets.  Let's quickly go through each one:
—
Parallel coordinates allow users to explore and analyze relationships between multiple discrete variables in multivariate datasets. We've implemented a brush function for users to filter specific ranges of interest for each variable axis. Additionally, there's a reorder function to rearrange axes for exploring relationships between variables. By default, the color of lines is encoded by the variable on the first axis. However, users can encode line color to a categorical variable using the color filter at the top right of the system, such as body type, exterior or interior color, brand, or selling states. Users can also hover over the color legend to highlight specific values or click on them to filter the value of interest, and toggle the button to switch back to the linear encoded scale.
—
The scatter plot allows users to visualize relationships between discrete variables as well, selecting variables for the x and y axes and using color to encode additional information. Users can overview the initial distribution, apply the state map, brand bubbles or color filter to focus on specific values, and hover over data points to access details such as car brand, model, trim, and other exact value. The main difference between the brand bubble filter, state map filter, and color filter by brand or state is that the color filter leaves the filtered-out data as context, while the state and brand filters completely remove the unselected points.
—
The box plot visually summarizes the data distribution, central tendency, and variability, highlighting its quartiles and potential outliers.Users can categorize the boxes based on a chosen variable for comparing  data distributions across different categories. Applying the state or brand filter is particularly useful when the boxes are categorized by state or brand respectively. Users can hover over the box to view grouped information like median and interquartile range, and hover over outliers to view information about individual points. Additionally, users can choose to hide outliers or switch to sorting the box by median or mean.
—
For categorical variables, users can use parallel sets to analyze connections and distributions across dimensions, which are represented through interconnected ribbons reflecting proportions or frequencies. The color of the ribbon is encoded by the first axis variable; users can reorder the axes for exploring distribution between different variables, and hover on the ribbon to see how the specific combination of values distribute.


 — INSIGHTS & SCENARIO —

For the car dealers who want to start the business in the USA, when they get into the system, they can find that California, Texas, and Florida have higher transactions, which means higher car demand. Then, they can click to select these states. Then, they can view the brand filter to figure out which brands are the most popular among these states. Based on the bubble size, We can see that  Chevrolet, Toyota, Ford, and Nissan are the top 4 popular brands among these states. Then we can go back to the map filter, view and select different options to compare the sales condition between selected states by color depth. We can find that Florida has the most total  sales number and  amount in total, however, for the median and mean, it’s hard to tell who's the higher, so we can hover on each to compare the exact values, or just switch the sorted basis on the box plot categorized by the state. Based on  all these factors Florida seems to be the best location.Then we can select Florida on the map only, and categorize the box by brands to decide which brand sells the best  in Florida. Same with the states, we can back to view the brand filter first, select different options like total sales amount to compare each brands. and we found that Lexus seems to have a high sales amount in total in Florida, so that’s add it in. Then we can compare them by the box plot, and sort it if necessary.

Based on all the factor, we can conclude that if the dealer’s customers is targeted at high ends group, lexus may be the best choice in Florida, since it bears the higher median, mean, Q1 and Q3, Conversely, if dealer’s selling strategy  is as more number as possible, the Chevrolet may be the best choice.
